== Prerequisites ==
Make sure you have salve jars.
See [BuildingSalve] page for instructions on how to build Salve from source.

You need a small configuration file telling salve which instrumentors to run. This file is kept in META-INF/salve.xml, and usually looks like this:

{{{
<config>
	<packages>
		<package>
			<name>com.mycompany.myproject</name>
			<instrumentors>
				<salve.depend.DependencyInstrumentor/>
			</instrumentors>
		</package>
	</packages>
</config>
}}}

Replace <com.mycompany.myproject> with the base package name of your application. The `<packages>` element can contain multiple `<package>` elements.

== JVM Agent ==
=== When ===
Best option for development as no special code post-compilation step is needed, making launching the application directly from an IDE easy. Can also be used at deployment time if access to java command line is available.

=== How ===
To enable the agent add the following JVM option to the startup command:
{{{
-javaagent:<path to salve-agent.jar>
}}}

Example:
{{{
java ... -javaagent:~/.m2/repository/salve/salve-agent/2.0-alpha1/salve-agent-2.0-alpha1.jar
}}}

== Maven2 Build ==
=== When ===
Best option when the project is using maven2 for builds and no java command line access is available for deployment.

=== How ===
Add the following lines to pom.xml

{{{
<!-- fragment to demonstrate invocation of the maven plugin -->
<properties>
  <salve.version>2.0-alpha1</salve.version>
</properties>
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <!-- salve dependency injection -->
    <groupId>salve</groupId>
    <artifactId>salve-depend</artifactId>
    <version>${salve.version}</version>
   </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <!-- salve dependency instrumentor -->
    <groupId>salve</groupId>
    <artifactId>salve-depend-inst</artifactId>
    <version>${salve.version}</version>
    <!-- no need to include this in final packaging -->
    <scope>provided</scope>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>

<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>salve</groupId>
      <artifactId>maven-salve-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>${salve.version}</version>
      <configuration>
        <verbose>true</verbose>
        <debug>true</debug>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <!-- instrument production classes in target/classes -->
            <goal>instrument</goal>
            <!-- instrument test classes in target/test-classes -->
            <goal>instrument-test</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
}}}

== Ant Build ==
Coming soon

== Eclipse ==
Salve has an eclipse builder plugin which can incrementally instrument files as you are editing them. See salve-eclipse module in svn.

Eclipse update site: http://salve.googlecode.com/svn/eclipse-update-site

== IDEA ==
Coming soon - needs to be updated for 2.x